During the Southern continent's tribal period, the natives of what they called "The Land Beyond Thunder", Yomen, the Northern-most continent on Encartha [Aside: the Disruption planet], sent many envoys South.

The land of Yomen was once much like Shionu: beset by the disease of beasts possessed of thought. These sentient animals had begun to organize into tribes which consisted of conglomerates of genetic clusters--kinships--which gained and lost momentum with the rapidity of the most capricious wind.

Then, so many years before the Disruption as to nearly pre-date time, there was an oddity: a day without sound. Only the beasts possessed of thought who noticed. They were the only ones who found it unnatural, who were no longer attuned to what the omen portended. The one exception was the omen, itself.

Prior to the omen, an otherwise-unimportant bald ape had been born with a vigorous zeal for living--a Will. As this Will matured, the ape grew driven to seek a destiny apart from his Kinship. And so he gathered a weapon and his thickest furs.

He traveled to many places; he fended off other tribes, was Nature's predator and prey, and managed to find shelter in the harshest snowfalls.

But whenever he was forced to slow--huddling into a cave, his only comfort and warmth raw determination--he found a tickle would begin to build. It built in a place deeper than awareness, an insidious decay, raw and unfiltered.

He would begin to travel, and the itch would abate. And so he saw many places.

On the North-Eastern coast of Yomen, there was once a village so inconsequential as to lack a name. One day many years ago, this fisherman's village of relative peace had been host to the Will ape, and while he had ventured elsewhere, a seed of Will had remained.

And on the Soundless Day, this Will was born. Even as the howls of child birth faded from the ears of its emitter, the gasp of the child was the singularly-audible sound, heard only by those within reach. And when this child slept that night, sound returned to the world.

This child was named Antu, "The Center", and word from those present at his birth spread that the world's attention had waited on the child that day.

In truth, the reason for the name its owner's temperament: even as the deliverer held him, Antu did not shed tears, howl, or thrash about. The infant relaxed, and the slits of eyes gradually opened for the first time--the ocean's blue suddenly emerging from viscera and gore.

As tradition, newborns' first rite of passage is a baptism by the sea. For several generations, the many families of this village had offered their weak to the sea--a way to feed the ocean, for how much the ocean has fed them. Antu remains unfazed, shifting slightly in the deliverer's arms as the man carries his tiny child outside into the freezing winds. His father's arms curl protectively around the infant, heedless of the gore, as long strides leave the man at the shoreline, and then he is stepping purposefully through shallow waters. He ignores the churning waves, and continues out past to calm waters. Waist-deep, and no longer warmed by motion, the cold begins to set in on the man as he lowers the child toward the water's surface.

The ocean blues of his eyes are subsumed again by lids smeared with viscera as the child is dipped smoothly beneath the water. For a moment the eyes seem to open, but as Antu's father raised him to air, nothing blue was visible. Antu, raised aloft, had been washed clean by the calm, freezing waters. Returned to the airs of his mother, Antu's focus was intermittent; his body would rise and fall as the steam of breath came from tiny nostrils, but breath was the only noise Antu made.

Antu's arrival was celebrated by the many members of his large family (~4 generations alive at once), but he treated each the same: the quiet, steady sound of breath. And his eyes, which seemed to fix upon those of his visitors. Through all their words and the praise their lavished, the infant Antu watched from the cradle of his mother's arms.

And over the course of many years, Antu gathered the nomadic tribes of the then-nameless Yomen--by way of speech where possible, and by way of arms when necessary.

{Antu}

1. Make a world map. Ten continents--four middle, three upper hemisphere, three lower hemisphere. One of its upper ones is named Yomen, roughly meaning "Nation which has transcended discord and strife." One of the four middle ones is referred by its residents as "Shionu". has a giant desert in the center of it, as well as mountains to the North.